Installion of Zipdy for Distance Calculations
---------------------------------------------

In order to install Zipdy for distance calculations, you must
have the GDBM database libraries suppored on your platform.
You must also have your webserver configured to support CGI
script.

The steps to install Zipdy for distance calculations are to
upload the GDBM database to a location on your web server
where the Zipdy CGI script you would like to use can read it,
modify the CGI script your would like to use if necessary,
compile the CGI script if necessary, and finally to upload
the CGI script to the web server and change its permissions
to allow it to be run by the web server.

You may need to modify the path to the GDBM database file in
the Zipdy CGI script source code, depending upon where that
file is stored.  If you need to provide additional path
information in the script source code, you should include
that information as the full path from the root directory.

After the first step of uploading the GDBM database is compete
and after you have also completed the second step of modifying
the script file if necessary, you should compile the CGI script
if necessary.  Most likely, this is only necessary for the C
version of the Zipdy CGI Script.  You can compile the C version
of the CGI script with the following command:

gcc -lgdbm zipdy.c -o zipdy.exe

The next step is to upload the CGI script to the web server, this
would be either zipdy.exe, zipdy.php or zipdy.pl.  The final
step is to change the permissions on the uploaded CGI script,
if necessary.  On a Linux or Unix web server, the permissions
should be 755 or -rwxr-xr-x.

You should now be able to run the Zipdy CGI.  If zipdy has
difficulty reading the GDBM database, make sure the database
has world read permissions and that your path information is
correct.  If you have difficulty executing the Zipdy CGI
script, make sure that the GDBM library is available and that
your webserver is correctly configured for CGI.


Installation of Zipdy for Proximity Searches
--------------------------------------------

In order to install Zipdy for proximity searches, you currently
need to have the postgres RDBMS installed (including the
development package for postgres, if you're install from RPMs).

The first thing you need to do is to create a database for Zipdy.
You can do this by su'ing to the postgres user and execute the
zipdy.sql file:

postgres% psql

If you want to store the zip code data is a different database,
of if you do not yet have a database created, you should create
a database now by issuing the create database command in psql.

When you have created and connected to the database that you
want to insert the zip code information into you must run the
sql commands in the file zipdy.sql.  These commands will set
up the tables zipdy uses.  You can run those commands by typing
the following command in psql:

postgres=# \i zipdy.sql

You can then begin the process of loading data into the zipdy
tables.

Before you can load the data into the database tables, you need
to convert it to sql commands.  After you have downloaded the
data files, you should decompress them.  You should then move
them into a directory on a disk partition where you have at least
1.5GB free.  Next, copy the convert_to_sql.pl script into that
directory from the zipdy-2.0.0/src/proximity directory.  Now, run
the convert_to_sql.pl script to convert the data files to a single
file called zipdy_db_load.sql. If you now need the disk space, you
can delete the data files with the exception of the new sql data
file. Finally, you can run the zipdy_db_load.sql file just as you
ran the zipdy.sql file:

postgres=# \i zipdy_db_load.sql

Note that while I note the difficulty of the above steps for data
file conversion, I do not distribute the zipdy_db_load.sql file
due to its massive size.

If you successfully completed the above steps, you now have a
populated database and you can run proximity queries as explained
by the example in the zipdy.sql file.

